(playful music)
We're on the pizza page
and we want to create a little filter up here
that will list all of the toppings, all of the,
the number of pizza that's have that topping
as well as the ability to click on each one
and then filter for pizzas that have that topping.
So let's go into our components and make a new component
capital T toppings, capital F filter dot JS,
and we'll do the whole song and dance
for import, react from react.
And then we'll make a export default function,
toppings filter.
And from that, we'll just return a div
and paragraph toppings.
We'll go into our pizza list.
Is there a pizza list?
No, it's not.
It's pizzas.js.
And up here, we will use our toppings filter.
So toppings filter.
And we will try to auto import that sucker.
There we go.
So imported toppings filter from where it lives.
And then we go ahead and render that out.
Gatsby broke.
We refresh it.
There we go.
We've got it showing up.
So there's a couple of things we need to do here.
First, we need to get a list of all the toppings.
Then we also need to get a list of all the pizzas
with their toppings.
Then we need to like count how many pizzas
are in each topping.
And then we need to loop over the list of toppings
and display the topping and the count of pizzas
in that topping.
And then we link it up,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Okay.
So this is where we get into
what is referred to a static query.
So pizzas.js,
we exported a graphql query from the page.
This is a page.
And the thing about page queries is that in the future,
we are going to be able to say,
give me all of the pizzas where the toppings
are equal to pepperoni, right?
And that is a dynamic query,
meaning that we can pass it variables like toppings
or vegetarian or whatever.
Now, if you want to query data anywhere else,
outside of a page like inside of a component,
you have to use, what's called a static query
and static queries are queries that do not take variables.
And that's just a bit of a limitation
with Gatsby right now, at least
where you cannot create a dynamic query.
So if you need to be dynamic,
you have to do it at a page level and pass the data down.
If it's just a static query that has no variables passed
into it, you can simply run that wherever you want
with a react hook.
So let's start with that.
So it's called use static query.
So we'll say const pizzas is equal to useStaticQuery,
and we'll go ahead and import that.
So useStaticQuery comes from Gatsby.
And then inside of that, we say graphql and back text.
And we had to import graphql as well.
That comes from Gatsby.
So useStaticQuery and graphql both come from Gatsby.
And then inside of here,
we write a query where we want all of our toppings.
So say toppings is equal to actually,
we can do it like this, all,
you know what?
let's write it on our graphql endpoint.
underscore underscore underscore graphql.
Let's go here.
Query allSanityTopping.
And then for each topping, we want the nodes.
And then we want the name of the topping,
the idea of a vegetarian and you run that.
We see onions ID vegetarian,
all of the stuff that we want.
Okay, good.
So let's take that query and just pop it in here.
And I also like to rename this
from all sanity topping to toppings.
Some graphql packages will automatically pluralize
the names of your data types, which is cool.
It'd be cool if Sanity do that,
but it doesn't look like it does
so we can just rename it with toppings S.
And why did I call that pizzas?
It's top, and then let's go ahead and console log, toppings,
we go back to our thing here.
And you see, it's showing up in our console here,
object oh, you know what?
We don't want toppings.topping.
So we want to destructure that.
This is data.
And if we want the toppings directly,
we can destructure toppings from that data return payload.
There we go.
So every go nodes in each one of them.
So that is our,
get a list of all the pizzas with their toppings.
That that's the next one, I guess.
'Cause we got a list of them.
So in the same query, we can also query our pizzas.
So I bump this up.
We could say allSanityPizza.
We've done this before.
Nodes.
Etc. etc.
So I'm not gonna write it in here.
Let's just write it directly inside of here.
So we'll go below this.
I'll say pizzas, it's allSanityPizza.
For the nodes, we want the toppings for that pizza.
And for each topping we don't want the name and the ID.
And we're gonna use that to count.
I guess we could also just use just this query
to get a list of all of the toppings
and then like uniquefy them.
But whatever.
I'm going to show you, show you this way.
I think that this is probably a little bit better
because if there was a topping that had no pizzas in it,
you would still wanna be able to show the pizza
and that wouldn't show up in this case.
So there, there we go.
That's good.
So to get a list of all the pizzas with their topping,
go up here and then, we have to also destructure that
into pizzas.
Let's go here.
Here we go.
Oh, we got a console log as well.
There we go.
It's the second one.
So a little trick I'm gonna show you here.
Ready?
Ready for this little trick?
So now I'm console logging two things
and I'm just like, what are they?
Right?
So if you want to know what the variables of something is,
you can just wrap your console log in curly brackets,
and then that will log them out
with their actual variable names.
And that's not a special console log.
That's actually just creating an object
where the name of the property is equal to the variable.
And the name of the property is equal to the variable.
I use that all the time.
So again, if you want to know what your variables
are called, when your console log something,
you can throw some curly brackets around your console log
and it will show you what the names are.
Good, so we've got our pizzas,
our 14 pizzas with the toppings in it.
Okay, good, good, good, good.
Well, what's next?
Count how many pizzas are in each topping?
Okay.
We will.
Let's make a function, let's go up here.
Let's make a function called function,
count toppings or count.
We'll say function, countPizzasInToppings.
And that will take in pizzas
and then return the pizzas with counts.
So let's go down here.
Count how many pizzas are each toppings?
So we'll say const toppingswithcounts is equal to,
what did we name that silly function?
CountPizzasInToppings.
CountPizzasInToppings
And then we need to pass it pizzas.nodes.
And let's just console log toppings with counts.
You see how like, this is kind of annoying.
Like if I'm working on something like this
and the console, doesn't clear because of hot reloading.
One little hot tip I got for you
is console.clear before you do all of your console logging.
And that will then just clear the console
every single time that you make a change.
So you're not seeing any old data in there.
So let's go up to this function
and do a little bit of lifting.
So let's just console log the pizzas.
So we see our pizza's good.
Let's get rid of that other console log.
We don't need that.
Then we'll do a little bit of map reduce
to actually get this data.
So we'll say
returnpizzas.map.
And for each pizza we wanna just return pizza.toppings.
So now that gives us an array of arrays,
which is every single pizzas topping array.
And now we wanna make just one big array
of every single topping imaginable.
And that is very easily done without flat.
And what flat will do is it will take an array of arrays
and turn it into just one big array.
So you look at, this is an array of 49 toppings.
Now what we need to do is just count the number of times
something like honey or pear or bacon shows up,
and then we'll know how many pizzas
are in that specific topping.
And that is a good use case for a reduced function.
Give it a save.
There we go.
My (indistinct) puts it on its own line
and reduced function takes in two arguments.
An accumulator ACC and the individual item,
which is a topping.
And then whatever you return from that
will be used on the next loop.
So we'll give ourselves some of this.
And then we also, that reduce
the second argument of reduced
is what do you wanna start with?
And in our case, I want to start with an empty object.
'Cause that's what we're going to be storing
all of our accounts.
Now, we need to do few things.
We'll say check if this is an existing topping,
if it is, increment it by one,
otherwise, create a new entry in our accumulator
and set it to one.
So what's gonna happen here is we'll take our toppings
and we're gonna say, Oh, ham, that's a new one.
One, one pizza has ham.
Spinach, oh, that's a new one.
One pizza has spinach.
And then the third topping, oh, ham again.
I remember I had that one.
Ham is now equal to two and spinach is now equal to one
and it'll just keep going over every single topping,
counting them as we go on.
So what we'll do here is we'll say cons existing topping
is equal to we'll take our accumulator.
And the accumulator is this object
that will be holding our counts.
And right now it's empty.
Accumulator square bracket, topping.name.
We could probably also use the topping ID here,
but should we use the topping ID?
Let's see, the topping IDs, do they start with numbers?
It doesn't matter.
Let's use the topping name or the ID
because if the name has like an emoji or something in it,
like that, that will break it.
So we'll use the topping ID.
And then we'll say if there is an existing topping,
then we will increment it by one.
So accumulator square bracket topping.ID
is equal to whatever the value was before plus one.
This is giving me an error,
Assignment can be replaced with operator assignment.
So I believe we can just do plus plus
No, it doesn't like that.
Oh, is it the plus equals one?
Yes, okay.
So basically that is equal to that plus one.
That's just a long way of saying plus equals one.
And from this, we have to return our accumulator.
Otherwise, create a new entry in our accumulator
and set it to one.
So otherwise the accumulator of topping.id
is equal to a curly bracket.
Oh we need to set some sub properties here.
So we'll say the ID is equal to the topping.id.
The name is equal to topping.name.
And then the count is equal to one.
And actually up here, we need to do topping,
not the accumulator of ID.
Well, we can, we can just use this existing topping variable
and then we'll use dot count
because we're not updating the property directly.
We're updating the count property on the object.
So this will make sense in just a second.
So let's save that.
And there we go, let's open up our object.
You'll see.
There's our first one, which is vegan cheese.
There is one pizza and then, the idea is kinda long,
but that's a good way to do it.
Count, there we go.
Count.
Good, good, good.
And finally, we wanna sort this ascending, descending.
We wanna have the most,
the piece with the most toppings first
and then go down from there.
So we're not actually gonna return.
This pizza's right here.
So we'll just say const counts is equal to.
And we'll go down here and we'll just say,
sort them based on their count.
Const sorted toppings is equal to
we'll take our counts.sort.
Oh, actually we can't call sort directly on it
because it's an object.
So we have to run object.values on that.
And we'll say count, was it counts?
Yeah counts with an S.
And then we'll run sort on that.
Where we have A, and B and we return b.count minus a.count.
And that's just a quick little search function
that will sort them for us.
And then finally return the sort of toppings variable.
There we go.
Array of 34 toppings.
Open that up, one.
I think we got a bit of an error here
'cause it's telling us every single topping has one in it.
So let's debug that.
I don't think that's right and that's not right.
'Cause like pepperoni is on at least a couple of them.
So let's debug this real quick.
If there is an existing topping,
then take the existing topping.count.
So we have to console log
existing topping and then console log
the existing topping.name.
Let's see what we're working with here.
Existing topping mushrooms.
It thinks all of them are exist.
Does it?
No, oh we have to do the other one here
and say console log new topping,
topping.name.
New topping pear.
So it is figuring out if it is existing or not.
Oh, is it because we forgot an else?
Yeah, we forgot.
Did we forget an else around here?
Oh, we can't have a console log inside of it.
Alright.
Let's see if that, did that work for us?
There we go.
Onion count three.
Now we're in good shape.
So good catch there.
Next step.
What we want to do is loop over this newly created
array here and start to show them.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So count how many good loop over each of the toppings.
So let's say curly brackets, toppings with counts.map.
This is how you loop over things in React
and we'll loop over the topping.
And for each topping,
we are going to return parenthesis and let's just do,
we're gonna need a link tag.
So auto import that from Gatsby and then inside of that,
let's just do topping.name.
Make sure it works.
Okay, it's not working.
Oh, I didn't put this inside of my JSX.
This is just up here.
So let's bring that sucker down here
and remove the paragraph tag and that parenthesis.
Here we go.
Onion, pepper roasted, good, good, good.
Now we also need to link this to,
and in our case, I'm going to be using the topping name
right in the URL.
So earlier, remember we generated slugs
for each of the pizza's names
and as well as the slice masters name?
you can also just use the pizza's name without a slug
directly in the URL.
The downside to that is if the topping has like a space
or some other character in it,
then it will get encoded in the URL
rather than looking nice with a slug.
So I thought I would show you both ways.
So I wanna link to forward slash topping
forward slash topping.name.
And now if I click on roasted garlic,
you see it doesn't go anywhere
because we haven't created a single topping pages just yet,
but it does link you to it.
Actually that looks pretty good,
it has a space in it.
You can see that it puts the URL encoded space in the error,
but not right here, which is pretty cool.
Okay, so that's working,
but we need to show a few more things here.
So let's also give ourselves some room inside this link.
We need a span with the class of name.
We'll put the topping name.
We need to span with the class of count.
We'll put the topping.count in there.
Let's open up our dev tools.
I bet it's yelling at us for not having a key.
I'll take that concept clear out.
Oh, weird, it's not.
Oh, there we go.
That's what we're looking for.
Each child in a list should have unique key prop.
Okay.
So again, anytime you map over something,
your immediate child needs a key prop.
And for that, we'll use the topping.id.
We're also gonna need a class on here
that shows us if we're on the toppings page,
but that's ahead of us right now.
So we're gonna leave it at that.
Let's write a little bit more CSS
to get this looking kinda nifty.
So we'll go up to the top here.
Say const capital T toppings, styles.
Is equal to style.div.
Gotta import style from, oh, that wasn't it.
There we go.
Import styles from style components.
And again, if you don't feel like writing this CSS,
you can just go grab this from the finished file,
but I'm gonna go ahead and show you.
So we are going to use Flexbox for this one.
And the reason behind that is because I'll show you.
We wanna flex.
Let me show you here is if I give that a save
and we go ahead and use this topping styles
on right here instead of div, we want these topping styles.
So this is gonna go forever.
So we wanna wrap that, flex, wrap wrap.
Let's make this a little bit smaller.
A gap of one rem.
It's another beautiful thing about Flexbox
is that now we have a gap property
and then margin bottom for rem.
Just a little space right here.
Okay, good.
We'll take each of the links that are in there.
So even though we use a link tag in Gatsby,
it is always just rendered out to an anchor link
so we can still use the a selector to grab it.
And for that, we wanna display grid on it
because we wanna put these things side by side.
We'll add some padding, 5px.
I'll do grid template,
columns auto 1fr grid gap zero, one rem.
So in this case, I only want the spacing to between here,
but not to the top and to the bottom of each of those.
The background, it's gonna be a variable, var gray.
Okay, okay.
We will do some more align items on Flexbox center
that just aligns the items vertically.
Border radius.
2px.
And then we'll grab the count.
So .count
``background, white
padding, 2px, 5px.
This is why we did that align items right here,
because now we've added padding.
See if I take it off,
you see how like the padding
only made them make the padding
a little bit more ridiculous.
See how this is not vertically align itself?
But if I put that align items back on,
it will then center itself inside of it,
regardless of if he add padding to one thing or another.
We'll bring that back to two.
And we will also just look ahead when we have an active,
we'll say the background,
let's say var yellow.
All right, that's looking pretty good.
What we need to do now is to figure out
how do we dynamically create the pages
both for like the pizza, you click on a pizza,
it doesn't work, you click on a topping,
that also doesn't work.
So that's what we're gonna be learning next.